Maintainers Minutes July 2025 (#3449)
nf-core/website: sites/main-site/src/content/blog/2025/maintainers-minutes-2025-07-31.mdx

headerImage: "/assets/images/blog/maintainers-minutes-2024-07-26/maintainers-wide.png"
headerImageAlt: "Cartoon yellow rubber duck with nf-core logo badge on its body with the nf-core logo."
embedHeaderImage: true
authors:
    - "jfy133"
label:
    - "maintainers"
---

import Profile from "@components/GitHubProfilePictureExtended.svelte";
import datahostingmeme from "@assets/images/blog/maintainers-minutes-2025-07-31/datahosting-meme.jpg";
import uptodatedocs from "@assets/images/blog/maintainers-minutes-2025-07-31/uptodate-documentation-meme.jpg";
import dataorganisationmessmeme from "@assets/images/blog/maintainers-minutes-2025-07-31/dataorganisationmessmeme.png";
import { Image } from "astro:assets";

The 'Maintainers Minutes' aims to give further insight into the workings of the [nf-core maintainers team](/governance#maintainers) by providing brief summaries of the monthly team meetings.

## Overview

After a short summer break, we returned with a special maintainers meeting dedicated to nf-core/test-datasets.
nf-core/testdatasets is a GitHub repository that holds the majority of the files we use for the CI testing of our modules, subworkflows, and pipelines.

> One of the less optimal developer experiences the community undergo current is interacting with this part of our infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Interacting with this part of our infrastructure is currently one of the less optimal developer experiences.
```
makes more sense to me this way

This has been identified based on qualitative impressions from the community by the maintainers and core teams, confirmed with the nf-core/survey from earlier this year, and our own experiences [TODO: ADD LINK TO BLOG POST].

As a first step in overhauling this experience we saw in the last major nf-core/tools release the addition of a new sub-command by @JulianFleischer [TODO: add GitHub Handle] to help explore the available data files in the nf-core/test-datasets repository.
However this only acts to alleviate the symptoms of the problems in identifying suitable files, knowing where to put new files, and what is within each file.
Instead we want to restructure and develop clearer specifications, documentation, and procedures for the test datasets repository.

> Therefore this month's meeting was 'taken over' by the wg-test-dataset-task-force [TODO: add slack channel link] leads Simon and James [TODO: GitHub Handles] to start the process of redesigning the structure and documentation.

Author: I used Matthias special HTML thingy for the git bubbles for all the user nbames, but thank you for going through!

## Additional considerations

Other points that were brought up such as:

- We should try to somehow 'version' test-datafiles - e.g. using GitHub URLs pointing to a specific hash, to reduce risks of test breaking if someone changes the contents of a test file (although this shouldn't happen) (Jon [TODO: GITHUB HANDLE])
- We could maybe consider a 'spill over' location, in case we stick with GitHub and the 10 MB limits are too restrictive for some tools's test-data (which would reduce costs) (Louis [TODO: GITHUB HANDLE])
- Is there a way to automatically identify data files that have never been used, so we can clean them to save costs (Famke [TODO: GITHUB HANDLE])
    - None of the maintainers present were aware of anything like this, but if a community member has an idea please let us know!!
- Should we allow 'copying' of a tool's own test-data files or always make our own derived from our existing files (where possible)

> 

Author: Willgo for it now and we can fxi it after in post if necessary :+1:

> - Should we allow 'copying' of a tool's own test-data files or always make our own derived from our existing files (where possible) (Igor: [TODO: GITHUB HANDLE])

Reviewer 2: I don't think I'm the one who said this. I've briefly talked about other ideas, but I'm not sure it was ever written down as James had connection issues at that moment.

Author: Ah poop - sorry! What did you talk about when my connection was dead? Feel free to make s comment suggestions

> - Should we allow 'copying' of a tool's own test-data files or always make our own derived from our existing files (where possible) (Igor: [TODO: GITHUB HANDLE])

Author: ```suggestion
- Should we allow 'copying' of a tool's own test-data files or always make our own derived from our existing files (where possible)
```
